README.md, before:

# AI Code Review Skill

A systematic code review checklist for AI-generated code. Works with Claude.ai, Claude Code, Codex, Gemini, and any tool supporting the [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io) open standard.

AI-generated code optimizes for the happy path. It compiles. Tests pass. But it routinely skips debouncing, input validation, error handling, connection management, logging, and security hardening. This skill enforces a structured review that catches those gaps before code reaches production.

## What This Skill Does

When you ask Claude to review code (or it detects AI-generated code), this skill triggers a 4-step process:

1. **Comprehension Gate** — Can you explain what the code does and why it fails?
2. **45-Item Checklist** — Evaluates security, performance, error handling, observability, architecture fit, and code quality
3. **Review Report** — Structured output with PASS/FAIL per item and concrete fix recommendations
4. **Severity Classification** — CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW with merge/block guidance

## What It Catches

The checklist covers 7 domains:

- Comprehension and intent (dead code, unclear naming, missing mental model)
- Edge cases and error handling (null values, timeouts, race conditions, partial failures)
- Security (SQL injection, missing auth/authz, hardcoded secrets, permissive CORS)
- Performance and scalability (no debounce, N+1 queries, missing indexes, no connection pooling)
- Observability (no structured logging, swallowed errors, no health checks)
- Architecture fit (pattern violations, wrong sync/async choice, unjustified dependencies)
- Code quality (untested unhappy paths, tautological tests, duplicated logic)

The `references/common-failures.md` file documents the 10 patterns AI breaks most often with bad/good code examples.

---

## Installation

### Claude.ai (Web / Mobile / Desktop)

1. Download or clone this repo
2. Zip the `ai-code-review` folder (the folder itself must be the root of the ZIP)
3. Go to **Settings > Capabilities > Skills**
4. Click **Upload skill**
5. Select the ZIP file
6. Toggle the skill on

The ZIP structure should look like this:

```
ai-code-review.zip
└── ai-code-review/
    ├── SKILL.md
    └── references/
        ├── checklist.md
        └── common-failures.md
```

### Claude Code (CLI)

Copy the skill folder into your Claude Code skills directory:

```bash
# User-level (available in all projects)
cp -r ai-code-review ~/.claude/skills/

# Project-level (available only in this repo)
cp -r ai-code-review .claude/skills/
```

Claude Code will auto-discover the skill. No restart needed.

### Any Agent Skills Compatible Tool

This skill follows the [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io) open standard. Place the `ai-code-review` folder wherever your tool reads skills from. The `SKILL.md` frontmatter handles discovery.

---

## File Structure

```
ai-code-review/
├── SKILL.md                         # Entry point. Trigger conditions, workflow, output format.
└── references/
    ├── checklist.md                  # 35 review items across 7 domains with explanations.
    └── common-failures.md           # 10 most frequent AI code failures with code examples.
```

## Usage

Once installed, the skill triggers when you:

- Ask Claude to "review this code" or "check my code"
- Paste code and ask "is this safe" or "audit this"
- Mention vibe coding, shipping AI code, or debugging code you did not write
- Request a pre-merge review

You do not need to invoke the skill manually. Claude loads it automatically when the context matches.

### Example Prompts

```
Review this Express API endpoint for production readiness.
```

```
I used Copilot to write this database query. Is it safe to ship?
```

```
Audit this React component before I merge it.
```

```
Gemini wrote this auth middleware. Check it before I deploy.
```

```
Codex generated this data pipeline. Is it production-ready?
```

## Contributing

PRs welcome. If you find a pattern AI consistently gets wrong that is not covered by the checklist, open an issue or submit a PR adding it to `references/common-failures.md`.

To add a new checklist item:

1. Add a row to the relevant domain table in `references/checklist.md`
2. Follow the format: item number, check description, explanation of why it matters
3. Keep the explanation to one sentence focused on the production consequence

## License

MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Fix inaccurate Claude Code skill discovery claim in README
"No restart needed" was misleading. New skills are discovered at session
start, not live. Live change detection only applies to editing existing
skill files mid-session, not to newly added skill directories.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01AbKUSTFu2RMpEbzCvDETpS

README.md, after:

# AI Code Review Skill

A systematic code review checklist for AI-generated code. Works with Claude.ai, Claude Code, Codex, Gemini, and any tool supporting the [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io) open standard.

AI-generated code optimizes for the happy path. It compiles. Tests pass. But it routinely skips debouncing, input validation, error handling, connection management, logging, and security hardening. This skill enforces a structured review that catches those gaps before code reaches production.

## What This Skill Does

When you ask Claude to review code (or it detects AI-generated code), this skill triggers a 4-step process:

1. **Comprehension Gate** — Can you explain what the code does and why it fails?
2. **45-Item Checklist** — Evaluates security, performance, error handling, observability, architecture fit, and code quality
3. **Review Report** — Structured output with PASS/FAIL per item and concrete fix recommendations
4. **Severity Classification** — CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW with merge/block guidance

## What It Catches

The checklist covers 7 domains:

- Comprehension and intent (dead code, unclear naming, missing mental model)
- Edge cases and error handling (null values, timeouts, race conditions, partial failures)
- Security (SQL injection, missing auth/authz, hardcoded secrets, permissive CORS)
- Performance and scalability (no debounce, N+1 queries, missing indexes, no connection pooling)
- Observability (no structured logging, swallowed errors, no health checks)
- Architecture fit (pattern violations, wrong sync/async choice, unjustified dependencies)
- Code quality (untested unhappy paths, tautological tests, duplicated logic)

The `references/common-failures.md` file documents the 10 patterns AI breaks most often with bad/good code examples.

---

## Installation

### Claude.ai (Web / Mobile / Desktop)

1. Download or clone this repo
2. Zip the `ai-code-review` folder (the folder itself must be the root of the ZIP)
3. Go to **Settings > Capabilities > Skills**
4. Click **Upload skill**
5. Select the ZIP file
6. Toggle the skill on

The ZIP structure should look like this:

```
ai-code-review.zip
└── ai-code-review/
    ├── SKILL.md
    └── references/
        ├── checklist.md
        └── common-failures.md
```

### Claude Code (CLI)

Copy the skill folder into your Claude Code skills directory:

```bash
# User-level (available in all projects)
cp -r ai-code-review ~/.claude/skills/

# Project-level (available only in this repo)
cp -r ai-code-review .claude/skills/
```

Claude Code will auto-discover the skill at the start of your next session. Once loaded, edits to skill files are picked up live without restarting.

### Any Agent Skills Compatible Tool

This skill follows the [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io) open standard. Place the `ai-code-review` folder wherever your tool reads skills from. The `SKILL.md` frontmatter handles discovery.

---

## File Structure

```
ai-code-review/
├── SKILL.md                         # Entry point. Trigger conditions, workflow, output format.
└── references/
    ├── checklist.md                  # 35 review items across 7 domains with explanations.
    └── common-failures.md           # 10 most frequent AI code failures with code examples.
```

## Usage

Once installed, the skill triggers when you:

- Ask Claude to "review this code" or "check my code"
- Paste code and ask "is this safe" or "audit this"
- Mention vibe coding, shipping AI code, or debugging code you did not write
- Request a pre-merge review

You do not need to invoke the skill manually. Claude loads it automatically when the context matches.

### Example Prompts

```
Review this Express API endpoint for production readiness.
```

```
I used Copilot to write this database query. Is it safe to ship?
```

```
Audit this React component before I merge it.
```

```
Gemini wrote this auth middleware. Check it before I deploy.
```

```
Codex generated this data pipeline. Is it production-ready?
```

## Contributing

PRs welcome. If you find a pattern AI consistently gets wrong that is not covered by the checklist, open an issue or submit a PR adding it to `references/common-failures.md`.

To add a new checklist item:

1. Add a row to the relevant domain table in `references/checklist.md`
2. Follow the format: item number, check description, explanation of why it matters
3. Keep the explanation to one sentence focused on the production consequence

## License

MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).
